# Code Mentor AI

CodeMentor AI is a Visual Studio Code extension that generates feedback on variables usage in code using a LLM informed by pedagogical content knowledge (PCK).

CodeMentor AI is part of a research project into generating feedback for learning using a LLM. Specifically, this tools gives feedback on programming tasks generated by an LLM informed by PCK on variables. It is designed to provide feedback to you on how variables are used in your program and its primary goal is to support your learning by highlighting areas for improvement, reinforcing good practices, and helping you build a strong foundation in understanding and using variables in programming. The target audience is students of semester one introductory programming at university bachelor level.

## Quick start

```console
$ git clone <this repository>
$ cd codementor-ai
$ npm install
$ npm run compile
$ vsce package
```

You should now see `codementor-ai-0.5.1.vsix` in the project folder. You can install this package locally in your extensions. Note: It won't work because no LLM API keys are loaded yet.

Go to `codementorai.ts` to enter your Claude and GPT-4o API keys.

Note: The datadrop API keys are optional and used for logging feedback requests to a private server.

## Features

* Generates feedback on variable usage using a LLM
* Pre-defined feedback request questions
* Built-in PCK on variables.
* Aims to provide balanced feedback
* Dynamically adapts feedback based on progress.
* Supports custom questions
* Implemented as a VS Code extension
* Flexible design (possible to switch LLM providers)
* Fully asynchronous code and streaming LLM response updates.

## Requirements

* Visual Studio Code
* Access to Anthropic Claude API
* Access to OpenAI GPT 4o API
* VSCode

## Extension Settings

* It is possible to change the LLM prompts in `package.json` but this will alter the tool's behaviour.

There are no further settings

Note:
* API keys are stored directly in code to avoid copying private API keys directly from the preferences. *(Note that they can be extracted nevertheless. It is better to create a setting where users manually enter the API key, but it was considered to complex to hand out API keys to participants of the study)*

## Known Issues

No known issues.

## Release Notes

### 0.2.0

Improvements:

* Keep tracks of received feedback and provides additional details if the same feedback is received multiple times.
* Supports automatic dark/light mode

### 0.5.1

* Release candidate

