# The Learning goals or learning outcomes for variables

The learning goals below are what students must learn and demonstrate their understanding of.

1. Understand that variables have an associated datatype and being able to choose the appropriate type from an existing set.
2. Understand and know naming conventions and meaningful/descriptive names are chosen.
3. Understand what scope of variables are and how apply scope.
4. What operations can be applied to variables including assignment.
5. Understand what a variable is, what role it plays and that variables contain a value.
6. Understand what the purpose of variables are and that they are used for data storage.
7. Understand what type conversion is and being able to apply type conversion.
8. Understanding and knowing how to pass variables as arguments and that function results can be assigned to variables.
9. Understand what the physical representation of variables in memory are and what the limits of various data types are.
10. Understand how to use and apply variables in context such as conditions.
11. Understand how to declare and initialize variables.

# Topics to exclude for learning goals

These learning goals below are excluded from the goals.

1. Understanding or knowing about value and reference semantics
2. How variables are implemented and represented in memory.
3. Any modifiers that can be applied to variables such as const, unsigned, public, etc.
4. What the details of type conversion are and how automatic type conversion works.
5. Implementation details of memory allocation and variable disposal
