# Assessment for understanding

These are methods and strategies to test students' understanding of variables.

## General understanding: Change/add requirements

- Add or change requirements of program so that adjustments to variables or variable usage have to be made. For example:
- Ask to increase/decrease loop iterations.
- Ask to change boundary checks. E.g. temperature trigger from 20 → 25.
- Change program input requirements.
- Request changes to the work
- Add extra data to process (e.g. add year of birth to already existing first/last name input)
- Change the program a bit. e.g. change the VAT percentage from 20 to 9 percent.
- Add an extra requirement (feature) and observe student making the change.
- change a value
- Asking how this variable can be given a different value. eg: make a small change to the requirement of an exercise.
- Ask student to change the code (e.g. by adding a line)
- Ask student to change values to take the else branch of an if statement
- To change a value of a variable and explain how it affects the program

## Purpose of variable

Ask:
- why is this variable necessary and what is its purpose?
- Ask the purpose of a certain variable.
- what the purpose of the variable is.
Check:
- Does datatype match purpose of variable
- Explain the purpose of this variable

## Datatypes

Ask:
- Why was a certain type chosen and not another.
- Assign number to a string : What happens?
- Why choose a certain datatype: a,b or c?
- explain reasons why a variable has a certain type.
- change the type of a variable.

## Naming

Ask:
- What is the reason for the name of variable(because it must reflect its goal). Is another name an option?
- Ask to explain why a certain name was choosen
- What is the reason for the name of this variable?
- Checking if naming conform to the standard
- asking the reason why a variable is named the way it is.
- Explain the reason for the choice of a name of a variable.

## Values during execution

Ask:
- Mentally run a program and explain the values
- Write out a table for the vars in a for loop.
- Explain value of a variable at a certain point during execution.
- Ask the value and type of a variable of a random spot in a program
- Show/produce variable mutation tables over execution time
- Explain a value of a variable at a certain point in execution
- Ask students to predict the values of a variable at a certain point in execution

## Declaration/initialization

Ask:
- Where is this variable declared?
- Ask students where to assign a value to a variable
- Explain why a variable is declared in the place where it is.
Check:
- Is a declared variable used
- Is a used variable declared
- where did you declare this variable
- where did you assign or re-assign a value to this variable.

## Scoping rules

Ask:
- Move the variable to a different scope : What happens?
- Why is this variable declared here?
- ask if a variable must be global or not.

## Conversion

Ask:
- Explain when type conversion happens
- explain reasons why a certain conversion method was selected.
Check:
- Do they do type conversion correctly.

## Other

- Review & feedback of code quality
- Ask students to explain their work
- Check non-verbal student response
- Change while loop into for
- ask to show if redundant variables can be reduced
- demonstrate by writing a program.
- explain meaning of a statement of a section of the code.
- Ask student to explain the choices behind the code.
- Ask student to explain why there is an equal sign in a condition instead of a comparison sign.
