# Mistakes students make with variables.

These is a list of concrete mistakes that students make with variables and programming

## Datatype mistakes

- Choosing the wrong type.
- Incorrect value/type assignment (mismatching datatypes on the assignment expression)
- Ignoring datatype details. Student use "classes" of types: numbers, string, boolean.
- Choosing the wrong type for a variable
- mistakes with overflow.
- Overflow mistakes
- Mixing strings with other types (string + int)
- Mixing datatypes in an expression. E.g: a / "1" (int div string)
- Choose wrong data type for the purpose of a variable
- String concatenation and type confusion: concatenating incompatible types.
- Choosing a double instead of a float/Choosing a double instead of an int.
- Comparison of float/double with int.
- Incorrect types
- Mixing the wrong datatypes in certain operations (e.g `"8" * 2`)

## Scoping mistakes

- Wrong place of usage. E.g. using a variable outside a loop that is declared inside a loop.
- Name shadowing with two variables. E.g. (Variable with same name in inner and outer scope.
- Accessing a var declared in a different scope
- Variable declared twice in the same scope
- Variable vanuit verkeerde scope aanspreken
- Using only or too many global variables where local variables are sufficient
- Referencing variables from the wrong scope
- Making everything public
- Using global scope instead of function scope
- making everything global
- Name shadowing (global `int a`; local `int a`)
- Making all variables global instead of local when appropriate
- using too many global variables.

## Naming mistakes

- Abbreviated unclear variable names
- Bad naming
- Short naming / math style naming
- Naamgeving: afkortingen. Using math named variables.
- Not following naming conversions
- Ignoring naming conventions
- Choose too short variable names
- Choose misleading or unhelpful names
- Choosing short names. E.g. a,b,c (= non descriptive names)
- Naming: naming a variable according to its contents and not its purpose.
- Not following naming conventions

## Declaration / initialization mistakes

- Missing variable declaration
- Forgetting to initialize a variable
- Relying on default initial values
- relying on default initialization values without realizing it.
- forgetting that a variable is already used and declaring it again in lower scope
- Forgetting to assign a value to new variable (forgetting to initialize)
- Using a variable without declaring or initialization
- Expecting a value without intialization
- Assigning multiple purposes to variables
- Using a variable that isn't declared.

## Conversion mistakes

- implicit vs explicity type conversion in mixed type expressions. (e.g. int & double or int & string)
- Relying on automatic type conversion in a condition (e.g. if (a) → if (a == 1))
- Relying too much on automatic (compiler) behaviour with type conversion. (string + int) vs (int + string)

## Operator mistakes

- confusing = and == operators

## Conditional expression mistakes

- comparing booleans to true or false.
- Mixing integers and booleans (in conditions)
- Wrong or missing condition in the loop condition
- Using the wrong variable in the loop (not part of the condition)
- Off by 1 errors in conditions

## Other mistakes

- Afraid to introduce new variables.
- passing variables to functions but not using it.
- creating a new a variable instead of reassigning a value to an existing variable.
- choosing string in the wrong place.
- Using too many (unnecessary) variables
- Reassigning a new value to the same variable using the same variable on the Right Hand Side (e.g. `a = a + 1`)
