# Student variable misconceptions

These are wrongly held beliefs about variables.

## Naming misconceptions

- Belief that variable name influences its behaviour
- Belief that arguments passed to functions are the same or must be the same as the parameter name.
- Belief that variable name must be as short as possible
- Thinking that parameter name of a function is associated with the argument name.
- Applying naming conventions from one language in another
- Not knowing that languages are case sensitive

## Datatype misconceptions

- Misunderstanding datatypes (incorrect assignment or wrongly mixed in an expression)
- Misunderstanding differences between similar types.
- Misunderstanding difference between floating point types and integer types
- confusing data types. e.g. string vs int
- Applying untyped language rules to a typed language (e.g. using the var keyword everywhere)
- Thinking that types have no limits
- Confusing boolean with int. E.g. (`digitalWrite(4, led_on)` where `led_on` is boolean

## Scoping misconceptions

- Thinking that a variable with the same name in another scope is the same variable.

## Operations misconceptions

- Confusing assignment and equality operator
- Confusing assignment operator for the comparison (`==`) operator.
- expression order: thinking that assignment is from left to right. E.g:  `a+b = c` the result of `a+b` stored in `c`.
- Assignment operator vs equals operator

## Other misconceptions

- Thinking that variable have large cost impact.
- Computer can guess what to with do with a variable.
- Thinking that variables do not mutate (cause mathematics)
- Thinking that a variable can't be reassigned a new value.
- Thinking that variable availability is limited (resulting in inhibition to creating a new variable)
- not realizing that arrays have a length
