# Teaching and explanation strategies

This document lists how teachers approach explanations and teaching about variables.

## Demos

- Give live demos.
- Give demos
- Give demos
- Joint building of a program/Teacher invites student to suggest idea for a program/Build it together with students instructing teacher what to type/Demonstrate mistakes, explain what is wrong, why it is wrong and then how to fix it.
- I do demos
- Live programming session/I ask students questions such as: "Which type should this variable be?"/let students suggest the next line

## Show examples

- Use examples of good bad naming
- Provide examples
- show examples
- give scoping examples and motivate why a variable is in a certain scope.
- I Give examples

## Explain

- Use the box analogy to explain
- Data storage: program is data in → data out.
- Compare constants (values) and variables
- Refer to mathematics. E.g. variable f(x). x is a var
- Explain strategy to write small isolated programs to test a question/behaviour.
- arguments/parameters: explain buy analogy of shopping list (arguments) and returning home with groceries (return value)
- String: explain as a chain of letters (literally)
- Explain variable-as-a-box analogy
- Explanation (lecture)
- Explain what variables are from a math & physics perspective. E.g. U = I · R and x=2y+3.
- Explain reasons for the existence of different types
- Explain naming rules & best practices
- By using analogies/Box analogy for variables/Bookshelve analogy for arrays/House with specific places for specific types of data/Shampoo in bathroom, Bicycle in garage
- Explain learning objectives first
- Show (partial)steps for an algorithm. E.g. how are two numbers added.
- explain the computational model and the role of variables/explain by a story that relates to real-life concepts/explain types./explain that a programmer has to write all small steps the computer must take/explain as-is with examples & counter examples/explain name be logical (have meaning):
- Make the connection with the real world. E.g. how does a calculator work.
- Cabinet analogy with labeled/numbered drawers
- I give direct explanation with examples.

## Debugging/Visualizing

- use the debugger and show what happens
- Show a table to keep track of value during execution.
- Run through program and show values during execution
- Visualize usage by showing values changes during execution
- show concrete values and examples
- Variable mutation table (shows variable change over time)
- Visualize lifetime by showing creation/destruction & table over time
- Helping with debugging using the debugger/first global information about the debugger/After step-by-step walkthrough and show variable values during execution
- Use debugger to make values of variables visible during execution. Also by using `print` statements.
- Show table with values during execution

## Practice

- Students practice.
- Feedback on assignments
